---
slug: examples
title: Examples
authors: [carriem]
tags: [examples, learning]
---

Back during my first few months as a tech writer, I was working on documentation for complicated software that’s used in an industry I knew nothing about. I felt like a blindfolded tour guide. If you’re a tech writer, you’ve probably felt like this sometimes, too! You can find your way to walls and then doors, but you can’t bring people to the rooms they want to go to. Ultimately, it was my experience as a librarian that helped me navigate.

After an interview with a subject matter expert and some experimentation, I'd learned enough to write accurate instructions. But as a former librarian who has led thousands of training sessions, I knew the instructions for the most complicated functions would be easier to understand if they were accompanied by examples. Since I wasn’t familiar with the industry, though, if I was going to provide realistic examples, I’d need to do more research.

I didn’t want to disappoint my new colleagues by taking too long. And I really didn’t want to place an unnecessary burden on my subject matter expert. I wondered if I should consider the job done. At this point, the blindfold was off: I could guide readers to the essential places, I just couldn’t explain very well why they’d want to go there.

Would it be worth the time it took to identify and write realistic examples? I did a little googling and confirmed what I already knew to be true: concrete examples are useful in documentation, too.

### What I’m Working On

* Documentation for software that's used in an industry that was unfamiliar to me

### Questions

* Writing realistic examples for documentation takes a while when you don’t know the industry. Is it worth the time?

### Answers

* Yes! Examples are essential for library training sessions, and they're essential for documentation too.
* In fact, it’s a good idea to provide more than one example.

### Citations

* [Episode 10 - Concrete Examples | The Learning Scientists](https://www.learningscientists.org/learning-scientists-podcast/2018/1/3/episode-10-concrete-examples) (If you don’t have time to listen, read the show notes! They’re just as good.)
* [Default Behaviour Sticks (And So Do Examples) | Thinkst](https://blog.thinkst.com/2023/08/default-behaviour-sticks-and-so-do-examples.html)]
