---
slug: taxonomy
title: Taxonomy
authors: [carriem]
tags: [communication, info architecture, UI/UX]
---

My colleagues and I were having trouble communicating with one another. People were using different names for the same user interface (UI) elements. It would be an enormous undertaking to change communication habits across an organization, but one achievable first step we could take, I figured, would be to change terminology in written documents.

So I decided to create a visual glossary of UI elements. The glossary would make it easy for writers to consistently use a single name for any given window or form. Because some UI elements aren’t labeled, I also would need to provide instructions on how to name UI elements. If we needed to refer to an unlabeled UI element, I could assign a name to it based on the rules in the naming guide. At the core of this naming guide was a hierarchy of color-coded categories and examples. I wanted to call the hierarchy a taxonomy.

But *was* it a taxonomy? I knew the term from librarianship. Librarians in my field used taxonomies to assign metadata in digital repositories. I’d seen the term occasionally in tech comm publications, but I hadn’t paid much attention to it. Now I wondered, do technical communicators use the term *taxonomy* in the same way that librarians do? It would be counterproductive (and ironic!) if I misused a term in my naming guide.

How do technical communicators use the term *taxonomy*? I did a little research. I found a great article that led me to a great webinar. And a book! (See below.) I learned that in technical communication *and* librarianship, a taxonomy is a system that facilitates categorization of information. It uses tools including hierarchies and controlled vocabulary to help people derive meaning from things like names, tags, headings, and labels. I called the hierarchy in my naming guide a taxonomy.

### What I’m Working On

* Naming Guide for UI Elements

### Questions

* Librarians would call a hierarchy of color-coded categories a *taxonomy*. Would technical communicators call it a taxonomy, too?

### Answers

* Yes! In tech comm *and* librarianship, a taxonomy is a system that facilitates categorization of information.

### Citations

* [What Is a Taxonomy for Content? | Content Science Review](https://review.content-science.com/what-is-a-taxonomy-for-content/#:~:text=A%20system%20for%20organizing%20content,(driving%20attribute%20%2B%20tag%20terminology))
* [*The Content Advantage* | by Colleen Jones](https://content-science.com/publications/content-advantage/)
