---
slug: sections
title: Organize Content Into Sections
authors: [carriem]
tags: [info architecture, learning, online reading, UI/UX]
---

A few weeks ago, I started working on a help article for a data entry form. The form produces reports that can be used to evaluate profitability, uncover data entry errors, send mass mailings, and more. The form has grown longer over the years, and it now contains more than 30 input fields with no section dividers and no headings. The goal of my article was to define all the fields. This was a thorny information architecture challenge.

How would I format the article so that a reader could quickly make sense of the content? If I listed the fields one after the other with no section dividers and no headings, my list would be too long to comprehend. If I divided the list into categories, that would falsely suggest that the form is divided into categories too.

As a writer, I know that separating large blocks of content into chunks makes scanning easier, and as a former educator, I know that organizing content into meaningful categories helps people learn. So, I decided to break my lists into sections based on the order in which the fields appear in the form. Within each section, I would create subsections based on function.

This is an imperfect solution, but it’s the best solution for now. (Separately, I’ll recommend a new organization scheme for the form!) I found a couple of sources to support my decisions.

### What I’m Working On

* Help article for a long form

### Questions

* Why should large blocks of content be divided into sections?
* Why should content be organized into categories?

### Answers

* Breaking up large blocks of content into chunks makes scanning easier.
* Grouping related content together helps people understand it and remember it.

### Citations

* [Sources of Cognitive Load | The Learning Scientists](https://www.learningscientists.org/blog/2023/7/6?rq=chunk)
* [How Chunking Helps Content Processing | Nielsen Norman Group](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/chunking/)
