---
slug: ai
title: Artificial Intelligence
authors: [carriem]
tags: [AI, workflow]
---
 With so many people talking about artificial intelligence, I figured I might as well ask: Am I using AI like other writers? Here are 2 stories that tell me I am.

In [How I'm Using AI as a Technical Writer](https://passo.uno/ai-tech-writer-examples/), Fabrizio Ferri Benedetti says he uses AI for tedious tasks, and to provide support when he’s working outside his areas of expertise. Like Fabrizio, I use AI to do tedious work, and I’ve turned to AI for support! For example, when I needed to convert several pages of bulleted text to indented text, I fed the article to ChatGPT. And, since I lack subject expertise in accounting, I’ve asked Claude to check my explanations of things like general ledgers and assets as I build a user guide for new accounting software. I also called on ChatGPT when I needed a cheeky name for my fantasy football team! Talking trash is definitely not one of my strengths.

AI is helping me do my job, but I know it comes with a cost. I worry about decreased creative output, increased energy consumption, and a potential lack of interesting careers for younger people. So I was gratified to hear Mignon Fogarty’s podcast about AI. In [Struggling With AI: Job Loss, Energy Use, and More](https://youtu.be/r6_nLTHZ1r4?si=jlmt9dC6dqmmjuWt), Mignon discusses these concerns with Christopher Penn. We don't have answers, but at least we’re  keeping tabs on some of the risks.

So yes, I’m using AI like other writers! But of course I still have more to learn. Along comes Steve Arrants, another technical writer who I follow. He posted to LinkedIn that he’s experimenting with NotebookLM. So that’s now on my to-do list!

### What I’m Working On

* Using artificial intelligence as a writing tool

### Question

* Am I using AI like other writers?

### Answers

* Yes, I’m using it for tedious tasks and for support when I’m working outside my areas of expertise.

### Citations

* [How I'm using AI as a technical writer | passo.uno](https://passo.uno/ai-tech-writer-examples/)
* [Struggling with AI: Job loss, energy use, and more | Grammar Girl](https://youtu.be/r6_nLTHZ1r4?si=jlmt9dC6dqmmjuWt)

___

*When I was a librarian, I told students to do question-based research and to cite their sources. Now that I'm a technical writer, I follow my own advice! This is a journal of my work.*
