---
slug: red-pen
title: Red Pen, Green Pen Test
authors: [carriem]
tags: [UI/UX, learning]
---
My colleagues are nice, and this is a problem! Often, when I ask for feedback about internal knowledgebase articles, I hear gratitude and praise. Our docs are good! The feedback is genuine and specific. But I want to help people feel more comfortable with providing a balanced critique. So when a UX researcher in a podcast I was listening to referred to a “red pen, green pen test,” I made a mental note to google it later.

I learned that in a red pen, green pen test, you hand your subject a printed document and 2 pens. You tell them to use the pens to underline text that stands out: green for sentences that increase confidence, and red for sentences that decrease confidence. Then, you talk with them about what they underlined.

I tried the red pen, green pen test, and the results were fantastic. As usual, I heard praise. (“It’s great that it reminds people to include the problem in the work order title; when folks are new, I see generic titles like “Call back.”) But I also heard critical observations. (“We don’t create a work order from this screen because it’s too easy to select the wrong customer.”) At the end, I told my subjects I appreciated their honesty. One of them responded that it was easy:  “We were instructed to use the red pen!”

Even though these particular subjects are notoriously nice, I came away with actionable feedback. As a result, I made a document more useful to more people.

### What I’m Working On

* User research for internal knowledgebase content

### Question

* How can I encourage friendly colleagues to give constructive feedback?

### Answer

* Try the “Red Pen, Green Pen” test. It instructs people to find both bad and good content.

### Citations

* [It’s Oꓘ If its not Perfekt | UX Writing Hub](https://uxwritinghub.com/its-ok-if-its-not-perfect/)
* [A simple technique for evaluating content | User Research in Government](https://userresearch.blog.gov.uk/2014/09/02/a-simple-technique-for-evaluating-content/)

___

*When I was a librarian, I told students to do question-based research and to cite their sources. Now that I'm a technical writer, I follow my own advice in this journal of my work.*
