---
slug: notices
title: Notices
authors: [carriem]
tags: [online reading, style guide]
---
When knowledgebase contributors started including notices in their drafts, I knew I needed to add instructions for notices to our style guide. A step-by-step procedure probably shouldn't have more notices than it has steps. *Important* and *warning* shouldn't be used interchangeably. And let's not sprinkle in *hints*, *tips*, *notes*, *reminders*, and *good-to-knows*!

As writers who are tasked with helping readers complete essential tasks, we want to draw attention to every sentence that we publish. But if procedures contain too many notices, readers won’t... *notice* them! And if labels are applied inconsistently, they’ll be more distracting than they are helpful.

Conveniently, just when I began thinking about how to select and define a small collection of notices, this very question was posted to the Write the Docs Slack. Based on the responses, I settled on *tip*, *notice*, *important*, and *warning*, and I gave each notice a definition that makes it more urgent than the one that precedes it.

I’ve refined the instructions several times since then. Recently, this article  reaffirmed my decisions: [Warning Labels in Technical Writing: 2025 Best Practices | adoc Studio](https://www.adoc-studio.app/blog/warning-labels-in-asciidoc). But then a LinkedIn post made me wonder about ISO standards! Is it time to revisit the instructions again? Guess I'd better do more research.

### What I’m Working On

* Style guide: Instructions for notices

### Question

* Which notices should we use, and how should we define each notice?

### Answer

* *Tip*, *notice*, *important*, and *warning*. Each is more urgent than the one that precedes it.

### Citations

* [Warning Labels in Technical Writing: 2025 Best Practices | adoc Studio](https://www.adoc-studio.app/blog/warning-labels-in-asciidoc)

___

*When I was a librarian, I told students to do question-based research and to cite their sources. Now that I'm a technical writer, I follow my own advice! This is a journal of my work.*
