---
slug: alt-text
title: Alt Text
authors: [carriem]
tags: [accessibility, style guide]
---
Our style guide tells writers to include screenshots in how-to articles only if the screenshots are really necessary. For those times when we do include screenshots, I researched what kinds of descriptions to include in the alternative text. Often, a caption seems like it would be suitable for alt text, too. Should alt text be a simple copy-paste of the text in the caption?

I found two different but related answers. The W3C alt Decision Tree says that if the alt text also appears nearby, the alt text is redundant, and you should provide an empty alt attribute. At the same time, a Nielsen Norman video about alt text says that if the text on the page refers to the screenshot, you must provide alt text. If you don’t, then people using screen readers might wonder if they’ve missed some of your content.

We always refer to screenshots in the text of our articles, so I’ll follow Nielsen Norman’s advice. But I’ll also follow the advice of the W3C.

Our style guide will say that alt text should refer back to the text where it’s described, and it shouldn't be a simple copy-paste of the caption. So an alt text description might say something like this: “Usernames tab of License Window, described in the text above.” And a caption might say something like this: “Usernames tab of License Window.”

### What I’m Working On

* Style guide advice about alt text for screenshots

### Question

* Should the alt text for a screenshot be a simple copy-paste of the caption?

### Answer

* No. The alt text should be different, and it should refer back to the textual description.

### Citations

* [An alt Decision Tree | W3C](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/)
* [Alt Text: Not Always Needed | Nielsen Norman](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/alt-text-usability/?lm=accessible-solutions-benefit-everyone&pt=youtubevideo)

___

*When I was a librarian, I told students to do question-based research and to cite their sources. Now that I'm a technical writer, I follow my own advice in this journal of my work.*
