---
slug: exist
title: Make It Exist
authors: [carriem]
tags: [workflow]
---

My last post was 10 months ago. That’s a long time, but it feels like it’s been even longer! I have a new boss and a new colleague, and I've navigated a massive shift in job responsibilities. Outside of work, I bought a new house and moved to a new town. Inflation, rising unemployment, violence, war. Just to name a few things that have happened.

I’ve lost my routine. If I’m being honest, I’ve lost my inspiration. But I want to get it back! My monthly journal entries gave me a reminder to reflect and a place to collect disparate thoughts. The thoughts turned into knowledge that I was excited to share with peers. How do I start writing again?

I spent a few mornings making lists of potentially interesting topics. After so much change, what question, answer, or citation could possibly be worthy? Nothing seemed quite right. Then on social media, the algorithm sent me this: *Just make it exist first. You can make it good later*.

### What I’m Working On

* Work journaling routine

### Question

* How do I start writing again?

### Answer

* Write something. Anything. The rest will follow.

### Citations

* [Just Make It Exist First](https://www.instagram.com/p/DUyQZweiGmL/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link&igsh=MzRlODBiNWFlZA%3D%3D)

___

*When I was a librarian, I told students to do question-based research and to cite their sources. Now that I'm a technical writer, I follow my own advice! This is a journal of my work.*
